People use traces from the start to just
tell what's going on under the hood. And
it's way more impactful in agents than
in single LLM applications because in
single LM applications, you get some bad
response from the LLM. You know exactly
what your prompt is. You know exactly
what the context that goes in is because
that's determined by code and then you
get something out. In agents, they're
running and and and repeating and so you
don't actually know what the context at
step 14 will be because there's 13 steps
before that that could pull arbitrary
things in. So like what exactly is
everything's context engineering?
Context engineering is such a good term.
I wish I came up with that term. Like it
actually really describes like
everything we've done at Langchain um
without knowing that that term existed.
But like traces just like tell you
what's in your context and that's so
important.
Welcome to training data. Harrison, you
are our very first guest on training
data and the AI space has moved so
quickly uh in the 18 months or so since
we originally interviewed you and so I'm
delighted to get you on the show today.
Um topics of the moment. I think there's
nobody better than you to talk about
some of these topics. We're going to
talk first about long horizon agents and
agent harnesses. Pat and I had this blog
post on this yesterday. I know this is
something that you are deeply um fluent
in. And then we're going to talk about
what's the difference between building
long horizon agents versus building
software um and the role that you see
Lang Chain playing in that ecosystem.
And then finally, I just want to chat
with you about the future. I think you
single-handedly, you know, kind of saw
the agent opportunity I think before
anybody. You know, we were back in the
GP3 days and um I think you see the
future for what's happening with agents
and so I'm just excited to chat with you
open-endedly about the future as well.
>> I am really excited as well. Thank you
guys for having me back. It's quite an
honor. I'll tell my mom again and that
I'm back on the line.
>> Wonderful. Okay, let's start with long
horizon agents.
>> Yes, that was a great term. You guys
wrote a great article.
>> Sony's good at naming things.
>> We're not going to get into the the
backstory there. Um, what do you think?
What do you agree with? What do you
disagree with?
>> I mean, uh, I agree that they're
starting to finally work. I think like
the idea of running an LLM in a loop and
just having it go was, uh, was always
the idea of agents from the start. uh
autog was basically this then this is
why it took off and and captured so many
people's imagination because it was just
an LLM running a loop completely
deciding what to do. The issue is the
models weren't really good enough and
the scaffolding and harnesses around
them weren't really good enough and I
think the models got better. We learned
more about what makes a good harness
over the past few years and now they
start to like really really work and you
see this in coding first and I think
that's the domain where they're taking
off the most and that's spreading to
other domains but you can give a task to
an agent and you still need to
communicate to it what you want it to do
and it needs to have the right tools and
all of that but it can actually operate
for longer and longer periods of time
and so that yeah the long horizons kind
of like uh uh framing of it I think is
really really apt and really really
good.
>> Awesome. Um, what are your favorite
examples of long horizon agents and I
guess what shapes you see them taking?
>> So, coding is the place where there's
the most. I think that's the one that I
probably use. Yeah, that's the one that
I use the most. Um, adjacent to that, I
think like really good ones are AI
SRRES. So, Traversal I think is a
Sequoia company and and they have an AI
SR that that that operates over longer
time horizons. research in general and
I'd call like AISR kind of research like
they're taking a incident and they're
going and digging through logs like
research in general is a really really
good task because it ends up producing
like a first draft of something and the
issue with agents is they aren't like
reliable to 99 of reliability but they
can do a ton of work and and more and
more work over longer time horizons. So
if you can find these framings where
they run for a long period of time but
produce like a first draft of something
those to me are like the killer
applications of long horizon agents
right now. So like I coding coding is an
example of that like coding you usually
put up a PR you don't directly push to
prod unless you're vibe coding which is
also starting to get better and better.
Uh AISR usually surface it to a human
who comes in and then reviews it. Report
generation you don't send it out to all
of your followers right away. You look
at it you edit it. It creates like a
first draft of something. So we see this
in uh we see this in finance a bunch.
This is this is a huge research
opportunity. Customer support. We see a
lot of things pivoting from kind of like
the initial the initial customer support
was like first-line response like
someone messages you just respond really
quickly and there's still that and and
that's going great but now there's
examples K is a great example of this
where it's like humans and AI working
together when the first line fails you
escalate to a human you don't just have
the human handle it you have this long
horizon agent run in the background
produce a report of everything that
happened and then hand it off to the to
the to the agent there um to the human
agent there agent starts to get
confusing in customer support.
>> Um, so so I think the killer use case of
all of these is places where you have
like this first draft type of concept.
>> And then how much of the uh the why now
do you think is the models themselves
are just so good versus people are doing
really smart things on the harness side?
>> And maybe even before we get to that,
can you say a word for for our listeners
on like you know how you frame the the
harness versus the model in terms of the
actual composition of an agent?
>> Yeah. So and and I'll maybe I'll maybe
bring in like framework as well because
I think early on I mean that's how we
describe lang chain as that's what lang
chain is it's an agent framework and now
and now we have deep agents which I'd
call an agent harness and we get asked
about what's the difference so a model
is obviously the LLM tokens messages in
messages out um the framework would be
abstractions around that so making it
easy to switch between models uh adding
abstractions for other things like tools
and vector stores and memory and things
like that but pretty like unopinion
about what goes in there more values
are more like batteries included. So
when we talk about deep agents we're
talking about we we actually give it a
planning tool by default. So it has a
tool that that that comes built into the
harness. That's pretty opinionated that
like this is the right way to do things.
Um we do compaction. So you have these
long horizon agents. They're running for
long periods of time. Context windows
are larger but they're still not
infinite. And so at some point you need
to compact that. How do you do that?
There's a lot of research going on there
right now. Uh, one of the other sets of
tools that we and a lot of people are
giving to these agents are tools for
interacting with the file system whether
directly or via bash and and
this is it's kind of tough to separate
from the models because the models are
being trained on a lot of this data as
well. And so there's this kind of
evolution between like I don't know if
we could have known that like these file
system based harnesses are the best
thing at like if if we fast if we go
back two years ago I don't think we
could have known that because models
weren't really being trained on that as
much as they are now and so they're kind
of evolving together. So so I think it's
like a combination of things. It's the
models absolutely are getting better.
Reasoning models are helping helping a
lot. Um, but it's also the fact that
we're figuring out all these primitives
around compaction and uh and planning
and and these file system tools being
really useful. And so it's I I do think
it's a combination of both.
>> Um I remember in in that very first
episode we did together, you know, you
described
laying graph I think as the almost the
cognitive framework.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh of of the of the agent. Is that the
right way to think about what the the
harness is? Uh yeah, I think I think
that's right. Yeah, so we we build we
build deep agents on top of Langraph.
It's one particular kind of like
langraph instance. It's very
opinionated. It's more general purpose.
Um and so I think early on we talked
about general purpose architectures and
more specific architectures. And what
we've seen is that a lot of the
specificity for tasks previously that
might have been in langraph because you
needed to put more structure on the
models. Now that specificity is moving
into the tools and the instructions. So
there's still the same level of
complexity. It's just in natural
language. And so prompting and editing
those prompts and and and automatic
maybe automatically updating those is
becoming a part, but the harness is
remaining a little bit more fixed.
>> Um
>> what's the hardest thing to get right on
the harness side? And do you think, you
know, do you think individual companies
can actually excel at the harness
engineering side of things? Who do you
admire there? Uh I think a lot of the
companies that are doing the best
harness engineering are coding
companies. Honestly, I think that's the
place where it's taken off a bunch. I
mean you look at cloud code. I would
argue a big reason for the popularity of
cloud code is the harness itself. Um
>> does that by the way imply that
harnesses are better built by foundation
model companies than by third party
startups?
>> I I I don't know. Um I so the next
company I was going to mention is
Factory which is another coding company
and and I think you look at at the
harness they've done there. AMP um is
another coding company has a has a has a
really good harness. Um I think there's
pros and cons. They there definitely is
some aspect of the harness being tied to
a model. Um and and maybe not just not a
specific model but a family of models.
So like all cloud models like anthropic
fine-tunes on some specific tools.
OpenAI fine-tunes on different ones. So
like I think probably probably probably
probably probably when we were doing
this last time we maybe talked about how
prompts need to be different for one
model versus another. Hardnesses also
need to be slightly different for one
family of of things versus the other
>> but there are similarities. Uh all of
them use the file system in in in some
sense.
>> Um so I think this is I I I I actually
don't know the answer to that. It's a
really interesting uh thing. Um we see
that a lot of the coding com a lot
everyone who's building a coding company
is basically building their own harness
right now. Yeah.
>> Um,
>> and there's all these leaderboards and
you can see it's actually kind of
interesting if you go to terminal bench
2, which I think is probably the one of
the more kind of like popular coding
benchmarks right now. You can actually
see they they have like the the agent
harness and then the model and so you
can see the variation in performance and
claude code is not at the top of that.
>> Um, so there's there's differences but I
think it
>> it doesn't necessarily mean that the
model labs are better at it. It just
means that you have to understand how
the models work and people who look at
the at what makes a harness tick around
the model can can get some performance
gains there.
>> Yeah.
>> What do you think goes into, you know,
making the harness tick? Like what do
you think that the guys at the top of
the leaderboard are doing exceptionally
well?
>> I think part of it is definitely
understanding like what tools the models
uh trained on. So uh I think OpenAI
trains really heavily on Bash. I think
Anthropic has an explicit kind of like
file editing tools and so I think
leaning into that is part of it. Um
compaction is becoming more and more of
a thing. Uh so especially as you start
doing longer horizon tasks like you
start to fill up the context window and
so what do you do there is a really big
question and there's a bunch of
strategies for for kind of like
approaching that. I'd argue that's part
of a harness. I mean, so all of these
harnesses also this is where like skills
and MCPs and sub aents start to come
into play as well and you can use those
in like different ways and and I don't
know how I I don't think a ton of like
skills or sub agents are trained into
the models yet like those are still
pretty new.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and and so like one one of the things
that we see in our harness is like when
you have a sub agent the the the the
main model needs to communicate with it
like well it needs to it needs to give
it all the appropriate information. it
needs to let the sub aent know that it
needs to like give it its final response
out. So like we would see some failure
modes where the sub aent because
basically what happens is you kick off
the sub agent and then only the final
response is passed back to the main
agent. And so we'd see some failure
modes where the sub agent would do a
bunch of work and then it would be
basically like look at my work above and
then you know pass that back to the main
agent and it can't see it and it's like
what are you talking about? And so like
that type of like prompting to get these
pieces to work together is a big part of
it. So like skills, sub agents, MCP,
there there are like prompts in all of
these harnesses that make them work well
or don't make work them work well. And
they're they're hundreds of of lines
long if you look at some of the the the
ones that are out there.
>> Can I ask you a question on how this has
evolved and um
since you've always been
really kind of on the bleeding edge of
what are people doing around the models
to make them work in the real world,
right? If we think about in our
simplistic view on like what the big
inflection points over the last five
years have been feels like there was a
big inflection point around pre-training
when chatbd came out. Feels like there
was a big inflection point around
reasoning when 01 came out. Feels like
just recently there's been a third big
inflection point around these long
horizon agents with cloud code and opus
45. Um in your world the world of all
the stuff around the models that that
makes them work in the real world. Would
you have a different set of inflection
points? Like what have the major changes
been? I remember we talked about
cognitive architectures a couple years
ago and now we're talking about
frameworks and agent harnesses. Like
what have the major leaps in
um sort of the design around the model?
Yeah. What have they been?
>> So I think there's maybe like three eras
I would say. I'd say like early on and
this is when Langchain was just started
like these were still the raw like text
in text out like not even chatbased
models. And so they didn't have any of
the tool calling. They didn't have
>> any content blocks, any reasoning at
all. They were really just like
>> really really
>> basic. Uh and so the the things that
people were doing were mostly like
single prompts or like chains. Um and
and it wasn't even possible to do
anything like that complicated. Then a
lot of the model labs started training
in a lot of like the tool calling into
the models and they got really good at
kind or they tried to make them good at
like thinking and planning and they
still weren't they still weren't good
yet. they sort of weren't good as they
as they are today. Um, but they were
good enough to like
>> decide what to do. And this is where
like the custom cognitive architectures
would come in more into play because
you'd ask it explicitly like what do I
do here? But it was like a very like
point in time and then you go down this
branch and then like what do I do here?
And maybe there's a loop and and there
started to be some loops but it's still
a little bit more kind of like
scaffolding around it.
>> And then there was an inflection point
and I don't know where exactly that was.
I would say I think we noticed it
probably in like June July of this year
where we saw Cloud Code taking off, deep
research taking off, Manis taking off
and these all use the same architecture
under the hood of just the the LLM
running in the loop but like cleverly
like a lot of a lot of hardness is
context engineering like everything
around contraction context engineering
sub agents context skills context
engineering. So we basically saw them
using the same core algorithm but making
just like improvements on context
engineering and we're like oh that's
interesting that's pretty different than
before. And so that's when we started
working on deep agents.
>> I think for a lot of people in the
coding community, I think probably like
Opus 4 5 was when they started to like
really feel this. It might have also
just coincided with winter break when
everyone went home and started using
claude code and realiz how good it was.
Um but I think like around like
November, December like I think there's
has been this like
>> at least I I sense a pretty big like
vibe shift in like people just like yeah
you throw hard problems at these things
and you get long horizon agents. And so
I don't know whether it was early 2025
or late 2025, but at some point the
models got good enough and and that's
when we moved from like scaffolds to to
harnesses.
>> And what's next on this arc?
>> I I wish I could tell you. Um, I mean I
do think that like this algorithm of
just running the LM in a loop and
letting it orchestrate its own uh let
letting it really choose what to pull
into context and and and doing stuff
there that is like it's so simple and so
general purpose like I mean that was the
core idea of agents and all along and
and and we're finally there.
>> Um if you look at some of the manual
scaffolding like maybe some of that goes
away. So like compaction is still very
manual like the the harness author
decides what to do with it. Anthropic
has some interesting things where they
let the model decide like when to
compact things. We don't really see a
ton of people using that. Maybe that'll
be a part that's next. Uh part of what
we're really interested in is memory as
well. If you think about memory in the
context of this, that's also context
engineering, right? It's context
engineering over longer time horizons
and it's a slightly different set of
contexts, but it's still giving that to
the to the LLM. And I think uh I think
like the the core algorithm is is is
pretty like it's pretty simple. It's run
the LLM in a loop and we're finally
there and it kind of works. And so I
think there'll be a bunch of like
context engineering tricks around it.
And maybe some of that is giving the
context engineering actually to the LLM
like letting like the anthropic thing.
Maybe some of that is just pulling in
new types of context. The models will
will probably get better. They'll
probably I mean they'll probably get
better and better at these types of
longer horizon tasks. that'll be great
as well. Um, one of the big questions on
my mind it so a lot of these harnesses
that we see are very coding specific.
Yeah. Um, and that's where we first
started to really see these long horizon
uh, agents take off and even for
non-coding tasks I think you can make an
argument that like writing code is
really useful and uh, can be general
purpose.
>> I was going to ask you are coding agents
is that a subcategory or are coding
agents just agents? Meaning the job of
an agent is to figure out how to get a
computer to do useful stuff and code is
a pretty good way to get a computer to
do useful stuff.
>> I don't know. Um this is one of the big
so I I I very very strongly believe that
like right now if you're building a long
horizon agent, you need to give it
access to a file system. Like there's so
many things you can do with a file
system in terms of context management.
Like when we talk about compaction, one
strategy is to summarize but put all the
messages in the file system so that if
it needs to look it up, it can. Uh,
another strategy is when you have like
big tool call results, don't pass it all
to the model. Put it in the file system
and let it looking let it look it up.
Now you can do all of that without like
a real file system actually without
letting it write code. So we have a
concept of like a virtual file system
where it's just backed by Postgress or
something like that and it's more
scalable, but there are obviously things
you can do with code that you can't do
with a virtual file system. You can't
run code in a virtual file system. Um,
so like writing scripts is like really
useful for that.
>> Yeah. Um, and I think a coding agent can
be general purpose, but I don't know if
that means that today's coding agents
are, if that makes sense. Because I
think a lot of the coding agents today
are pretty optimized for coding tasks.
And so I think it's possible that a
general purpose agent is a coding agent,
but I don't know if like the reverse is
true if if if that kind of like makes
sense.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> We're thinking about that a lot as well.
Are all agents coding agents?
>> Yeah. That's that's one of the biggest
things that we're thinking about right
now.
>> Yeah. Maybe can we transition into
talking about what goes into building a
long horizon agent versus building
software? Um can you maybe describe the
software development stack for for 1.0
code development and um and what's
different now? And I thought you had a
really good X article on this. Maybe
maybe just summarize the the punch line.
>> I've been I to think about this a bunch
because we like to say that build and I
think a lot of people would agree that
like building agents is different than
building software. But like what exactly
is different? Cuz I think it's it's easy
and lazy to say that it's different, but
what actually is different? These might
sound obvious, but hopefully that's good
and they're not controversial. But like
um when you're building software, all of
the logic is in the code in the software
and you can see it there. When you're
building an agent, the logic for how
your applications works is not all in
the code. A large part of it comes from
the model. And so what this means is
that you can't just look at the code and
tell exactly what the agent would do in
a specific scenario. you actually have
to run it. And so and so and so what
does that mean? And and I think that's
the biggest difference by the way like
we're introducing like these
nondeterministic systems into it and
it's a black box and it lives outside
and I think all that that's that's the
biggest difference. So what exactly does
that mean? I think like one thing that
that means is that in order to tell what
the application is actually doing, you
can't look at the code. You have to look
at actually what it does in in real
life. Um, and so I think one of the the
one of the things that one of the things
that we do that is most popular is
Langmith. One of the core parts of that
is tracing. Why are traces so popular?
Because they tell you exactly what goes
on inside your agent at every step. Um,
and it's different than software traces
where in software you kind of have your
system over here and it emits a bunch of
like uh stuff and you you know you look
at it when maybe there's some errors but
you don't need like everything and and
you usually only turn that on when you
put it in production because if it's
local you just put a breakpoint or
something like that. in agents like
people use traces from the start to just
tell what's going on under the hood. And
and it's way more impactful in agents
than in single LLM applications because
in single LM applications you get some
bad response from the LLM. You know
exactly what your prompt is. You know
exactly what the context that goes in is
because that's determined by code and
then you get something out. In agents
they're running and and and repeating
and so you don't actually know what the
context at step 14 will be because
there's 13 steps before that that could
pull arbitrary things in. So, like what
exactly is everything's context
engineering. Context engineering is such
a good term. I wish I came up with that
term. Like it actually really describes
like everything we've done at Langchain
um without knowing that that term
existed. But like traces just like tell
you what's in your context. And that's
so important. And so then and so like
what does that mean? That means that the
the source of truth for software is in
code. In for agents it's a combination
now of code and and and traces are where
you can see the source of truth.
technically in you know all those
millions of parameters but like you
can't really do anything with that. So
now so now that means that traces become
a place where you start to think about
testing because now you can't you can
test you can test some parts still of of
the harness and and and you can do some
unit testing offline but like in order
to get the the what the test cases are
you probably want to use the traces to
construct that. You probably want to be
testing online. That's probably more
important in agents than it is in
software is online testing because
behavior doesn't emerge until until it's
actually being used with with real world
inputs. Um, we see traces becoming a
point of collaboration for teams because
if something goes wrong, it's not, oh,
let's go look at the code in GitHub.
It's let's go look at the trace. We see
this in our open source as well when
people are being like, hey, deep agents
like went off the rails here. What
happened? Our response is like send us a
lang trace. Like we can't really help
you debug if it's if it's not that.
Previously would be like, show me the
code, right? So there's think there's a
transition there. And then I think the
other thing that's and and so that was
the blog post that I wrote on next which
got a lot of good feedback on. I'm still
kind of figuring out how to like phrase
it but I think that's that's a big part
of it. Um the other thing which I'm
still trying to think through as well is
I think building agents is more
iterative. And we used to say that and I
would kind of roll my eyes because
building software is iterative as well,
right? You you ship it, you get feedback
and it's it's constant iteration. That's
like what it is. I think the difference
is that in software you're you're you're
kind of like iterating based on what you
want the software to do. Like you have
some idea, you ship it, you get
feedback. Oh, maybe this, you know,
button is confusing. Maybe this uh maybe
users actually want to do X instead of
Y, but you know what the software does
before you ship it. With agents, you
don't know what the agent does before
you ship it. You have an idea, but you
don't really know what it does before
you ship it. And so I think there's way
more iteration involved in order to get
it like accurate, get it like right and
passing like conceptual unit tests
basically.
>> Um, and
building upon that like this is actually
why I think memory is really important
as well. Um, because memor is like
learning from those interactions. And so
if now you have a process that's like
way more iterative. And so now you have
to like it's it's way harder to build as
a developer because I have to like
change the system prompt like way more
than I would have to change code in
order to get it just perform like
correctly.
>> Yeah.
>> So that's where memory comes in because
if there's a way where the system can
kind of like learn by itself that cuts
down the iteration that you have to do
as a developer and makes it easier to
build these types of agents. So that's
another kind of like angle that I I like
I absolutely think agents are different
than building software. I think it's
also a little cliche to say that and so
I've tried to think about what exactly
is different and those are like the two
things that I've kind of come up with.
>> Well, and I'm curious on that too. Um,
one of the questions there's a big
public market debate right now is are
the existing software companies going to
make it. And if you analogize to when
on-prem software went to cloud, very few
actually did make it because it turned
out that building cloud software was
actually quite different than building
on-prim. And since you're in the middle
of kind of how people are building with
AI, um what's your take on not
necessarily the public market question,
but how different is it? Like do you see
have you seen a lot of people who kind
of like were good at building software
the old way and now they're good at
building software the new way? Or is it
more just you either grow up building it
the new way or you never get it? Like do
you think people can make the leap? a
lot of young founders out there right
now which which makes me think that
certainly it seems like the younger
people without a lot of preconceived
notions on how to build software you
know have the blank slate that has
allowed them to like pick up on a lot of
this stuff. I do think we we have
consistently heard that a lot of the
people who are on these agent
engineering teams are more junior
developers uh more junior builders even
um
>> who yeah don't have those preconceived
notions. Our applied AI team internally
definitely skews on the on the younger
side.
>> Um I do think I mean in terms of kind of
like I think there's like a there's like
a person aspect to this. There's also
like a company aspect to this. Like I do
think that like data is still really
really really valuable. Um
>> I think when you think about this
harness basically there's like if if
harnesses become I by the way I I don't
think that most people will build their
own harness in the long run because it's
actually way harder than than building a
framework. And so I think they'll uh use
uh a harness from us or from someone
else. And so if you think about what
goes into that it's like the prompt and
the instructions and then the tools that
it's connected to. And I think one thing
that this is more at the company level
now, but like one thing that existing
companies have is all the data and all
the APIs if if you've done a good job at
that then I think it will actually be
pretty easy to plug those in and get
real value out of things. Um we were
talking to someone in the finance space
and and they are saying yeah like the
value of data is just going up and up
and up and up. So if you're a previous
uh software vendor and you have this
data that is valuable like you should be
able to expose it to agents and get a
lot of value out of that.
>> Yeah. The other part of it though is the
instructions on what to do with that
data and that's probably like more net
new um in terms of like how to use that
data. That's probably you probably had
some ideas about that as a software
vendor but you didn't kind of like
consolidate it. You didn't have it
because that was something that humans
would still do. Like a lot of what
agents are doing what humans would still
do. So you'd give them the tools to do
it but you wouldn't have tried to like
automate that or you wouldn't have
successfully automated it before kind of
like agents. And so that part I think is
is is newer and we're also seeing a lot
of demand like I think a lot of the a
lot of the vertical startups um rogo is
a great example of someone who has
experience in finance and is bringing
that knowledge to agents and the reason
that's kind of like effective is because
a lot of the agents are driven by by
knowledge and and and and and not like
world knowledge but like knowledge on
how to do specific patterns. Um so kind
of yeah I think there's like are the
people who are building software the
right people to build agents. Um I think
we saw a lot of really senior developers
adopt agentic coding and so I think it
it it's a mindset thing but like yeah
there there is maybe a younger skew
there. Um and then and then for
companies depends on the data.
>> Yeah.
>> Even Pat's on on cloud code. So
>> even old guys can get it.
>> Sonia got me on there.
>> Um okay. Okay. So, it seems like the
trace is a core artifact you think in
kind of this new world of of agent
development and it's something that
linksmith helps a lot with. What other
core artifacts do you think are there?
And specifically, I'm wondering about
eval.
>> Yeah, I think um
>> maybe artifact is the wrong word.
>> Components.
>> Component. Yeah, I mean I I I think one
other thing that is different between
building software and and building
agents is that to evaluate software you
could pretty reliably you you could rely
on tests and assertions of of things
programmatically.
>> Um with agents a lot of what they're
doing is things that humans would do. So
in order to judge them you need to bring
human judgment into that. And that's
another thing that we try to do in
Lingsmith is how can you bring you've
got these traces how can you bring human
judgment to them? And so that like one
obvious way to do that is to bring
humans into the equation. Um and so we
see data labeling startups doing really
well. Uh we have a concept of annotation
cues in Langmith to bring people in
there. And so that actual like actual
human judgment is is a big part of it.
>> And this is humans annotating the actual
trace. So like ah the agent did this and
this and this and that was good or bad.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um saying and and sometimes
giving like natural language feedback on
it like this is good, this is bad,
should have done this. sometimes just
like correcting it like actually like
laying out what the what the uh correct
steps were kind of depends on the use
case and it's probably different for
model companies doing RL than it is for
for agent companies building building
agents. Yeah.
>> Um but it's bringing that human judgment
to it. Um but then another thing we see
is trying to build proxies for this
human judgment. And this is where LLM as
a judge type things come in where you
can run an LLM or something else that
you know has some semblance of human
judgment in it to grade the the thing
that requires human judgment. Um, and so
one of the things that we think a lot
about is how to make building these
elements as judges easy because a big
part of them is making sure that they're
aligned with your human judgment and
human preferences. And so and because if
they're not, you know, then your then
your greater is just bad. And so we have
a we have a concept in Langmith called
align evals. Um, where a human goes in
labels some traces and then that that
builds an LLM as a judge that that kind
of like is calibrated against those
traces. Um because a bit yeah a big part
of it is bringing this human judgment
and you just want to make sure that if
you're bringing a proxy of it it's it's
well calibrated.
>> Interesting. I remember when we first
got into business with you we were
emailing about LLM as judge. Is it a
viable idea or not? So it seems like
it's come a long way.
>> Okay. So there's there's a few different
aspects of LM as a judge, right? There's
like the immediate like so what most
people use them for in eval is like
taking this trace and give it a score of
like one to to zero or or 0 to 10 or
something like that. And yeah, I think
that's valu uh viable and people are
doing that. They're doing it offline.
They're also doing it online because
some of these judgments you don't need
ground truth for. But I think the other
area where this comes into is uh I mean
you you kind of see this in the coding
agents themselves like the coding agents
will they'll work up until something
then they hit an error and they get an
error and then they have to correct
there and so they're kind of judging
their previous work. And so and and we
also see this in memory like a big part
of memory is like reflecting on traces
and then updating something. And so like
can LLM reflect on traces that are
either like their own or their own from
a previous session or someone? Yeah,
absolutely. I think they can. We see
this all across evals and just like
error correcting and and memory. It's
all kind of the same thing.
>> I see. And then maybe Okay, so you have
all this you you have all the traces.
>> Yep.
>> You have the evals.
>> Yep. Um I think the natural question
that comes to mind for me is is the EVEL
like a reward signal for reinforcement
learning or is it a feedback mechanism
for you know a human engineer to improve
the harness
>> or for agent engineers to improve the
harness because everyone's no one's no
one's coding manual anymore. They're all
using these. So yeah, one big thing that
we've seen is like um we we have a
Langmith MCP and we have Langmith fetch
which is a CLI because coding agents are
actually great at using CLIs. um you
give that to an agent and it can pull
down traces and diagnose what went wrong
and then and then it brings those traces
into the codebase where it can then fix
it. That's absolutely a pattern that we
are seeing and and we really really
really want to support that pattern.
Crazy. Yeah, I know.
>> And it's good.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's good. Like
it it Yeah, it um and and so we see I'm
probably more bullish on that than on
kind of like reinforcement learning at
least for like the agent app kind of
like companies right now. That seems
like real recursive self-improvement
though.
>> Yeah, I think I think uh again there's
still a human in the loop. So like uh
back to the point around around like
things are good when you can do
something as a first draft like it it
changes the prompt and then the human
reviews it and like it it keeps it on
the rails. But like um I absolutely so
so one of the things we launched was
Langmith agent builder which is a no
code way to build agents. One of the
cool things that we have in there is
memory. Um, and so right now the way
that memory works is when you interact
with an agent, so it's not in the
background yet. It's not like pulling
down its traces, but when you interact
with the agent, if you say, "Oh, you
should instead of X, you should have
done Y," it will go to its own
instructions, which are just files, and
it will edit those files. So then in the
future, and so that's also kind of like
a a version of this. One thing we do
want to add is like the thing that runs
every night, looks at all the traces for
the day, updates its own instructions,
and so
>> the dreaming thing.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Sleep time compute. Um,
yeah,
>> sleep time compute. Is that what it's
called?
>> That's a term. Yeah, I think Leta came
up with that. It's It's a great term.
Yeah,
>> that is good.
>> Love it.
>> Awesome. Okay, let's talk more about the
future. Um, what are you what are you
most excited about? Sounds like you was
talking a lot about memory here.
>> I like memory a bunch. Yeah, I mean I
think asking the agents to improve
themselves is I mean I think very very
cool and can be useful in a lot of
situations. Not useful in all situations
by the way. like if I'm chatting so so
chat GPT added memory I don't actually
really use that feature that much and I
don't think it's created any more
stickiness for me to use the product or
anything like that and I think part of
the reason is when I go to chat GPT I do
like
everything's a one-off thing like I
don't really repeat myself that much I
have like I'm asking about software I'm
asking about food trips like everything
um in agent builder that you you build
kind of like specific workflows for
specific things so I have an email agent
Um, and I actually
>> I know it's been emailing me for two
years.
>> Well, so, okay, so I had an email agent
outside of agent builder and it had this
like memory as part of it. We then built
agent builder and I wanted to move it
into it and it didn't have all of my
memories and that was a big even though
it had the same starter prompt and the
same tools and that was actually a I
still haven't fully switched over
because it kind of sucks now compared to
what it was before like the compared to
the other one and I if I just interact
with it then it will get better and it
will stop sucking but like that's where
memory I think can be like a real moat
and I absolutely think that we're at a
point right now where LLM can look at
traces and change things about their
code. Um, and I think the question then
becomes how do you do that in a way
that's uh safe and acceptable to to
users. Um, but I I I think that's
absolutely uh something that we'll see
more of for specific scenarios, not all
of them. Like I still don't know if this
would be useful in chat GPT in this form
at least.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you think the UI around working
with long horizon agents will evolve?
>> I think there probably needs to be like
a sync mode and an async mode. So long
horizon agents running for a long time,
probably default would be some sort of
like async way to manage them. Like
you're if if it runs for like a day,
you're not just going to sit there and
wait for it to finish. You're probably
going to kick off another one and
another one and do a bunch of work. And
so I think this is where like async
management of things comes into play. I
think things like linear and Jira and
canban boards and maybe even email are
uh interesting to look at for
inspiration about like what it looks to
like to basically manage a lot of these
agents. But I think for a lot of these
at some point you're going to want to uh
switch into synchronous communication
with uh these agents because they come
back with a research report and you want
to give it feedback that it wrote
something wrong. And I actually think
chat's like reasonably good at that. The
only thing that I'll maybe say there is
that so many of these agents are now
modifying other things like files in a
file system that having some way to view
that like state is really important. And
so you see this in coding um where IDE's
>> ids are still used when you want to go
in and manually kind of like change code
and and uh even when I kick off uh cloud
code when it finishes I sometimes I pull
it up and look at the code that it
actually wrote. Um and so I think I
think having a a way to view that state
is interesting. One of the one of the
really cool things that Anthropic did
with their Claude co-work um when you
set it up, you choose the directory that
it's kind of like working in and you're
basically saying like this is your
environment. Um and obviously like
that's what you do in coding as well.
You open your ID to a particular
directory. But I think that's a nice
mental kind of like framing is like this
is your workspace. That could workspace
could be a Google drive. It could be a
notion page. Um, it could be anything
that like stores state and then you and
the agent are collaborating on that
state. You kick it off, you manage maybe
a bunch of these running asynchronously.
Then you go into sync mode where you
chat with it, but you also view this
state. And so that's kind of what I see
right now.
>> And this is like your agent inbox idea
then of, you know, to to enable the sync
mode, your agent's going to have to need
a way of reaching you.
>> Yeah, exactly. And so yeah, so the agent
inbox or something we launched that
about a year ago and and had this idea
of like ambient agents that ran in the
background and pinged you and the first
version of that didn't have a sync mode
and so it would ping you and then you'd
give a response but then you'd kind of
just wait for it to ping you again but
oftentimes like when I was switching in
to email you and respond to you, I would
I would I would I would say very small
things and I didn't want to switch out
and wait like I I you're really
important. So I wanted to like be in the
sync mode in this conversation with the
agent. And so one of the things we added
was this was was now when you open the
inbox you're brought into chat and chat
is very synchronous and that was
actually a big unlock. So I actually
think having just an async mode. I don't
think that really works right now. Maybe
in the future if they get so good that
you don't really need to like correct
them as much it gets more viable. But at
least right now I think we see people
switching from async to sync and back
and forth.
>> What do you think of code sandboxes?
Like is is every agent going to have
access to a sandbox? Is every agent
going to have access to or a computer?
Is every agent going to have access to a
browser?
>> Really good question. Something we're
thinking a bunch about. I think uh I
think coding has clearly worked more
than browser use so far. So at least in
the short term, it seems like if any of
those are going to be a key part there,
it's going to be this code execution
part. Um file systems, I'm completely
file system pled. I think in some form
agent should have access to some file
system coding. I'm maybe not as pilled,
but I'm probably like I'm like maybe
like 90% there. Like yeah, I think like
it is definitely possible. There are
it's maybe for like the longer
um tale of use cases. So maybe there's
something where if you're doing
something repeated, you need code less,
but I think file systems are still
useful because that repeated thing could
be generating a lot of context and and
you need to do context engineering. Um
but for the long tale of things,
coding's great and there's really no
replacement for that. browser use. Um, I
think the models just aren't good enough
at it right now from what we've seen.
Um, you could probably give like a
coding agent a CLI to do browser use and
there's probably some approximation
there. There's probably some people
doing some I think I have seen some cool
stuff there.
>> Um, and then computer use is like a
weird hybrid of the two. Um, so if Yeah,
code sandboxes, I really like code
sandboxes.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Cool. Um, Harrison, thank you so much
for joining us today. you have
consistently seen the future on agents
and it was really cool to have this
conversation and talk about how context
engineering has evolved to the current
point in time with with harnesses and
and long horizon agents and so thank you
for for driving that future and thank
you for always chatting with us about
it.
>> Thank you for having me on. I look
forward to being back on sometime in the
future and being completely wrong about
everything I said today. So it's very
hard to predict the future.